As in previous years I shall first review the progress of the Singapore economy in 1983 and the main points of our economic policy before proceeding to deal with the Expenditure and Revenue Estimates for the financial year 1984 and the tax changes to be introduced to meet our social and economic objectives.
THE ECONOMY IN 1983
We have done well in 1983. Our economy is in robust health. Investments expanded. Our currency is strong. Real incomes have risen. Inflation was minimal. This happy state of affairs is due in no small part to the past efforts of my predecessor as Minister for Finance, the late Mr Hon Sui Sen. The economic policies, which he laid down, established a sound foundation which enabled our economy to weather the 1980-82 recession and emerge fitter for the experience. He has left us a solid base to build on.
In 1983 the United States economy experienced a sharp upswing and the world took its first steps towards economic recovery. The total gross national product of the countries in the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) rose by 2 1/4%, reversing its decline of 0.3% in 1982. The rest of the world benefitted. World trade recovered to grow by 1% in volume terms.
Partly because of the reduction in oil prices, world inflation eased further. In June 1983, the inflation rate in the OECD countries went down to 4.9%, the lowest annual rate of increase since 1972.
However, the path to recovery was hampered by old obstacles. Unemployment remained high especially in Europe. The international financial system continued to be plagued by the debt problems of a number of the developing countries. Although timely intervention by international authorities prevented a major financial crisis from erupting, the debt problem remains a threat to sustained world economic expansion. In addition, protectionist sentiments were widespread in spite of the upturn in economic growth.
As an open economy Singapore benefitted from the world economic recovery. Our economy expanded by a commendable 7.9% compared with 6.3% in 1982.