Mr J.B. Jeyaretnam asked the Minister for Social Affairs if he will make a statement on the recent outbreak of cholera in the Woodlands Home for the Aged.
Mr S. Chandra Das asked the Minister for Social Affairs (a) what were the causes for the outbreak of cholera and subsequent deaths in the Woodlands Home for the Aged; (b) whether he is satisfied with the hygienic conditions of all the "Homes" in Singapore; and (c) what measures are being taken to prevent recurrence of similar situations.
The Minister for Social Affairs (Dr Ahmad Mattar): Mr Speaker, Sir, since Questions 3 and 4 are related, may I be permitted to answer them together?
Mr Speaker: Yes.
Dr Ahmad Mattar: Thank you, Sir. Mr Speaker, Sir, the recent outbreak of cholera in the Woodlands Home for the Aged was caused by the introduction of cholera bacteria into the Home from an outside source. A resident helper in the kitchen was infected through consuming contaminated food brought to him by a relative. He developed diarrhoea on 14 August and was diagnosed to be suffering from cholera on 18 August. Up to 7 September, a total of 21 residents were infected with cholera and 76 were identified as carriers.
Four of the cholera victims died. The causes of death were 'acute myocardial infarction' and 'acute cerebral infarction' in an 85-year old resident, 'cardio-respiratory failure' in an 82-year old resident, 'acute intestinal gangrene' in a 75-year old resident and 'acute gastroenteritis' in a 90-year old resident. It can be seen that two of the four victims died because of their frailty and low resistance to the cholera bacteria.
Mr Speaker, Sir, certain newspapers have given wide publicity to the outbreak and attributed the spreading of the disease within the Home mainly to the unsanitary condition of the toilets. While a few toilets serving the male residents were defective at the time of the outbreak and some others were not quite clean, these were in themselves not the main cause for the spread of the disease in the Home. The frailty of most of the residents in the Home, many of whom are incontinent and have poor control over their bowels, were a more significant factor. It was unfortunate that an infected resident helper in the kitchen was not detected as a cholera victim and isolated until after several days. He was the initial source of the spread of the cholera.