Mr J.B. Jeyaretnam asked the First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education (a) what were the reasons for dispossessing the pig farmers in Punggol of their farms; (b) how many farmers have been dispossessed of their farms; (c) what has happened to the farmers who have been dispossessed; and (d) has any alternative livelihood been offered to them.
The First Deputy Prime Minister and Minister of Education (Dr Goh Keng Swee): Mr Speaker, Sir, no pig farmers in Punggol have been dispossessed of their farms. So the questions raised by the Member for Anson are irrelevant. Despite this, I shall take advantage of this occasion to explain Government's present thinking on pig farming.
Pig farming is a highly pollutive industry, the animal producing excrement five times as much as a human being. A major review of pig policy was undertaken in 1979 when a decision was taken, on the advice of the Primary Production Department (PPD) of the Ministry of National Development, to install waste treatment plants in all pig farms as a means of reducing environmental pollution.
Such plants are expensive to install and require a minimum size of farm. In effect, this means that small pig farms will have to close down. These farms are sited on Government land under Temporary Occupation Licences (TOL) with nominal annual rentals. In this way, they are thus subsidized.
PPD's policy was to convert these small farms to large-scale commercial enterprises, paying economic rents and eventually installing waste treatment plants. They will be concentrated mostly in the Punggol area, and farms elsewhere will be phased out. PPD envisaged that by the end of 1986, there will be 70 commercial farms with a pig population of 650,000. With the exception of eight commercial farms (with a pig population of about 150,000) whose leases expire in 2005, all leases will expire in 1995. This pig population of 650,000 can serve Singapore's consumers if it is supplemented by modest imports from Malaysia.
There are, however, three serious weaknesses in this policy. The first is a technical one - the reduction in the level of pollution. This is measured by the Biochemical Oxygen Demand (BOD) which is the demand for oxygen by organic pollutants in the water. Raw pig waste with a BOD level of 4000 mg per litre requires more then 400 times as much oxygen as clean stream water which has a BOD level of less than 10 mg per litre.
PPD aims to achieve a BOD level of 250 mg per litre as a preliminary target. This represents a considerable reduction in pollution level, from 4000 mg per litre. However, a BOD level of 250 mg per litre is not acceptable to the Ministry of the Environment, as it is the BOD level of raw human sewage.
The second and third weaknesses are economic. Pig farming requires scarce resources, notably land and water. The scarcity of land in Singapore means that the proximity of pig farms is much too close to densely populated areas. As for water, the Ministry of the Environment estimates that 30 to 40 litres of water per pig per day will be required just to wash pig waste into the cesspits and treatment plants. Assuming that about half of the water used is PUB water and that a pig population of 650,000 is maintained, the amount of PUB water required to wash pig waste into cesspits and treatment plants works out to two to three million gallons per day.
Finally, the high cost of constructing and maintaining the treatment plants. The capital cost of the treatment plant works out to about $120 per pig. PPD proposes to give a grant of $100 per pig to commercial farms. The operating cost could be $10 per pig, according to PPD, but the Ministry of the Environment believes it to be between $20 and $30 per pig. Both PPD and the Ministry of the Environment are agreed that the treatment of pig waste to a BOD level substantially below 250 mg per litre would make pig farming uneconomic.
What PPD is doing is to levy a cess of $10 per pig slaughtered at the abattoir with the intention of using this money to subsidize commercial farms' expenditure on waste treatment plant. The cess was introduced on 1st January 1980, and the amount accumulated at the end of 1983 is $33 million. In effect, what happens is that the Singapore consumer is being asked to subsidize commercial pig farms in two ways. First is the cess of $10 per pig slaughtered at the abattoir. Second is the restriction on import of pigs, ostensibly on health grounds but, in reality, to maintain pig prices high enough to make commercial farms viable.
The Government is making a review of this policy. Does it make sense to spend some $80 million on waste treatment plants to achieve poor environmental standards? If pig farms have eventually to go, why prolong the agony? Are we assured of reliable sources of live pigs from imports? Can we persuade the Singapore consumer to buy frozen imported pork at lower cost?