BG Lee Hsien Loong: Mr Speaker, Sir, the Singapore economy is in a severe slowdown. Earlier this week, George Yeo and Dr Richard Hu announced the third quarter economic results. Our economy contracted by 5.6% compared to a year earlier. In annualised quarter to quarter terms, the contraction was 9.9%. The sustained contraction over the last three quarters is the steepest that Singapore has experienced.
On 25th July, the Government announced a package of measures worth $2.2 billion to help Singaporeans and businesses cope with the downturn. BG George Yeo made clear in his statement in Parliament that this was only an interim package, as the direction of the economy and the severity of the downturn was still uncertain. The Government would monitor developments closely, and stood ready to do more if conditions worsened.
Since that interim package, conditions have indeed worsened. This was happening even before the terrorist attacks of 11th September. But the 11th September attacks caused major shocks to the US and economies around the world, both short- and long-term. The situation is still fluid, and no one can be certain how events will play out. The US is in all probability already in recession. For Singapore in 2002, MTI's best guess at this moment of uncertainty is that growth next year will fall somewhere between -2% and +2%.
The Government will implement a major package of measures to help the economy to tide over the downturn. These measures fall into eight categories:
Tax and fee rebates and reductions;
Assistance to local enterprises;
Property market-related measures;
Acceleration of infrastructure projects;
Employment assistance for workers and executives;
Help for the lower income and unemployed;
New Singapore Shares; and
Measures related to wage costs.
These measures should help all Singaporeans, especially the lower income earners and the unemployed. They should also help businesses, especially the small and medium enterprises. Let me elaborate on each of them.